'\" t
.\" ** The above line should force tbl to be a preprocessor **
.\" Man page for EAGLE
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2014, CadSoft Computer GmbH
.TH EAGLE 1 "EAGLE Layout Editor" "CadSoft" "PCB Design Tool"
.SH NAME
eagle \- Easily Applicable Graphical Layout Editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eagle
[options] [file] [layers]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B EAGLE
is a printed circuit board (PCB) design tool that combines schematic capture,
layout editing and autorouting.
.SH OPTIONS
Most of the options are intended for use with the CAM Processor in command line
mode.

Options are either
.I switches
that turn a certain feature on or off, or set a certain
.I parameter
to a given value.
.I Switch
options are followed by a '+'
or '-' sign, which turns the given option 'on' or 'off', respectively.
In the following list of all options
.I switch
options are shown with their
default value. If a switch option is 'off' by default, it can be turned 'on'
by simply using the option character (the '+' sign is implicit).

With
.I tolerance
options values that have a positive sign define positive tolerances, negative
signs define negative tolerances, and values without a sign define 'plus/minus'
tolerances.
.TP
.BI \-A\  name
Switch to assembly variant
.I name.
.TP
.BI \-C\  command
Executes the given command in an editor window.
A file name (board, schematic or library) must be given, so that an editor
window will be opened in which the command can be executed.
.TP
.BI \-D\  tolerance
Tolerance for draw type apertures (0.1 = 10%).

Default: 0
.TP
.BI \-E\  tolerance
Tolerance for drills (0.1 = 10%).

Default: 0
.TP
.BI \-F\  tolerance
Tolerance for flash type apertures (0.1 = 10%).

Default: 0
.TP
.BI \-N
No command line prompts.
Turns off the command line message prompts in the CAM Processor. This is mostly
useful for fully automated CAM batch jobs.
.TP
.B \-O+
Optimize movement for pen plotters, photo plotters and drill stations.

Default: on
.TP
.BI \-P\  layer=pen
For pen plotters this option defines which layer is to be printed with
which pen (color).
.I layer
can range from 1..255,
.I pen
can range from 1..255.
.TP
.BI \-R\  rackfile
Drill rack file.
.TP
.BI \-S\  scriptfile
Define a different startup script file name.

Default: eagle.scr
.TP
.BI \-U\  name
Use the file
.I name
instead of the default ~/.eaglerc file to store user settings.
.TP
.BI \-W\  wheelfile
Aperture wheel file.
.TP
.B \-X-
Execute the CAM Processor in command line mode.
.TP
.B \-a
obsolete
.TP
.B \-c+
Assert positive coordinates ("auto fit").
Moves the output data so that everything is located in the
positive coordinate area.

Default: on
.TP
.BI \-d\  device
CAM Processor output device (\fB-d?\fR for a list of all known devices).
.TP
.B \-e-
Emulate unavailable apertures with smaller ones.

Default: off
.TP
.B \-f+
Fill pads. Defines wehther the drill holes of pads and vias should be
filles or not.

Default: on
.TP
.BI \-h\  pageheight
Page height (inch) for printers.
.TP
.B \-m-
Mirror output.
Note that this can cause negative coordinates, so you might want to make sure that the
.B -c
option is on.

Default: off
.TP
.BI \-o\  outputfile
Output filename.
.TP
.BI \-p\  pendiameter
Pen diameter (mm) for pen plotters.

Default: 0
.TP
.B \-q-
Quick plot, which draws only the outlines of objects.

Default: off
.TP
.B \-r-
Rotate output by 90 degrees.
Note that this can cause negative coordinates, so you might want to make sure that the
.B -c
option is on.

Default: off
.TP
.BI \-s\  scalefactor
Scale factor for the generated output. Values smaller than 1.0 generate a shrinked
output. If
.I scalefactor
has a negative (integer) value, the actual scale factor will be selected automatically
so that the drawing will fit on the number of pages given by the absolute value of
.IR scalefactor .

Default: 1.0
.TP
.B \-t
obsolete
.TP
.B \-u-
Output upside down (i.e. rotate by 180 degrees).
Note that this can cause negative coordinates, so you might want to make sure that the
.B -c
option is on.

Default: off
.TP
.BI \-v\  penvelocity
Pen velocity (in cm/s, for pen plotters that support this feature). The default value of 0
selects the plotter's default pen velocity.

Default: 0
.TP
.BI \-w\  pagewidth
Page width (inch) for printers.
.TP
.BI \-x\  offset
Offset in x direction (inch).

Default: 0.0
.TP
.BI \-y\  offset
Offset in y direction (inch).

Default: 0.0
.SH DIRECTORIES
By default, EAGLE is installed in
.B /opt/eagle-7.1.0
(if installed as user 'root'), or
.B ~/eagle-7.1.0
(under the user's home directory),
but you can install it into any other directory you might prefer.
.PP
The following subdirectories are located below this directory:
.TS
tab (@);
l l.
\fBbin\fR@Executable programs
\fBcam\fR@CAM Processor files
\fBdoc\fR@Documentation files
\fBdru\fR@Design Rules files
\fBlbr\fR@Part library files
\fBprojects\fR@Example board and schematic files
\fBscr\fR@Script files
\fBulp\fR@User Language Programs
.TE
.SH HELP SYSTEM
Context sensitive online help information is provided as an HTML file.
.PP
EAGLE implements its own help viewer, but the help file can of course also be viewed
with any other HTML viewer.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGTERM
Terminates the program. Any modified files will
.B not
be saved.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful program execution.
.TP
.B 1
CAM Processor warning.
.TP
.B >1
An error has occurred.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.eaglerc
User specific parameters are stored in the file
.I .eaglerc
under the user's home directory.
.SH VERSION
This is EAGLE version 7.1.0.
.SH AUTHOR
.B
EAGLE
is produced by CadSoft Computer GmbH (http://www.cadsoft.de).

Copyright (c) 1988-2014 CadSoft Computer GmbH.
